# Project Analysis Proposal

Ria Deshpande \
October 30, 2020
EE282

OrthoRep is an orthogonal DNA replication system in yeast, that encourages more mutations on p1, a linear plasmid with the gene of interest on it. A highly error-prone polymerase replicates these linear plasmids without affecting the genomic mutation rate in the yeast nucleus. Since yeast undergo closed mitosis, the genomic DNA polymerase and the error-prone p1 polymerase is spatially separated too. Data from evolution experiments is usually from sequencing of p1. To evolve in lab, the gene of interest is cloned onto p1, and yeast are grown in selective media, that ensures selection for p1, and the altered function expected of the evolved gene on p1. When the culture is saturated, a small volume is used to inoculate a culture containing a more stringent selection media. The data from evolution consists of sequencing the gene on p1 for every passage to identify mutations by comparing to the starting cloned sequence. \
\
The first step will be to collect this data from my lab mate where the tryptophan synthetase gene is cloned onto p1. Continuous evolution was performed, and tryptophan synthetase that grew at a different temperature and performed a different function was evolved at the end. The sequencing data can be analyzed to first check the integrity of the sequences and then to align them to the original or starting sequence. Then, mutations can be identified, starting with nucleotide differences leading to amino acid differences. From all the replicates, the most common mutations can be identified. The proportion of synonymous to non-synonymous mutations can be calculated and plot as a bar graph / stacked bar graph per sample. I can also figure out if our error-prone polymerase is biased towards A-T or C-Gs depending on the proportion of mutations being changed from any sequence N, to A-T or C-G. \
\
Since the data is all available, and such analyses are fairly straightforward but very informative, not just for me, but for everyone in my lab, this pipeline will be very necessary. It would be helpful for all data generated in our lab to have these preliminary analyses, to compare different versions of our OrthoRep system. Since tools for aligning sequences, and identifying mutations are widely available, this analysis should be possible. I am still working on identifying the exact tools that would be most appropriate for such an analysis.   
